k8gb: Incubation Due Diligence (#2210)
cncf/toc: projects/k8gb/k8gb-incubation-dd.md

# k8gb Incubation Due Diligence

**Status:** Adoption evaluation complete (3 interviews, 3 orgs, 3 geographies). Ready public comment → TOC vote.

- **Incubation application:** [cncf/toc#1472](https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues/1472)
- **Project:** Sandbox since 2021-03-30 → applying **Incubation** · [k8gb-io/k8gb](https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb) · [k8gb.io](https://www.k8gb.io/)
- **Primary DD authoring:** @TheFoxAtWork and @ricardorocha

> - **GTR:** [cncf/toc#2021](https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues/2021) · [PR #2029](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/2029) (in flight)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GTR:** [cncf/toc#2021](https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues/2021) · [PR #2029](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/2029)
```

  -  _If applicable_ a Technical Review was completed/updated on 30-Jan-2026, and can be discovered in the [projects/k8gb](https://github.com/cncf/toc/tree/main/projects/k8gb/tech-review/2026-01-30.md) folder.

The DTR found the k8gb architecture is decentralized; each participating cluster runs the k8gb operator and an embedded CoreDNS instance. It leverages external-dns to handle zone delegation. This architecture ensures that even if one cluster is completely lost, the remaining clusters continue to serve valid DNS and route traffic correctly.

- [X] **Document the project's release process.**

k8gb follows a [mature release](https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#release-process) cadence (roughly quarterly) using Semantic Versioning (SemVer). The pipeline is fully automated via GitHub Actions, encompassing container image signing, Helm chart publishing, and SLSA provenance generation.

## Security

### Suggested

N/A

### Required

Note: this section may be augmented by a joint-assessment performed by TAG Security and Compliance.

- [X] **Clearly defined and discoverable process to report security issues.**

> The project has a discoverable [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb/commit/eb15fe8dd6a2a7734b8ec1d11d231b987dc0e458) file that outlines a clear process for reporting vulnerabilities to the maintainers and specifies the expected response timeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project has a discoverable [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb/blob/master/SECURITY.md) file that outlines a clear process for reporting vulnerabilities to the maintainers and specifies the expected response timeline.
```
